meanwhile attention is also focused on
Iran which has in recent days warned
that thean backed proxies in the region
could attack Israel unless a ceasefire
is agreed Iran's role in supporting
proxies in the region such as Hamas and
Hezbollah is well known it's all
centered around a rivalry between Iran
and Israel that goes back
decades just days before Israel was
attacked by Hamas Iran's supreme leader
made his opinion of Israel clear
this cancer Israel will definitely be
uprooted at the hands of the Palestinian
people themselves and resistance forces
across the
region Israel has long accused Iran of
supporting the Hamas terrorist group
following the attack Israel issued
strong condemnation of
tan Iran backs
Hamas I think that 90% of hamas's
military budget comes from Iran
it funds it organizes it leads it
trains there's no Hamas without this
support system just like there's no
Hezbollah without
Iran Israel and Iran actually had close
ties until the Iranian Revolution in
1979 after that supreme leader declared
Israel an enemy of the newly formed
Islamic
Republic despite hostilities a period of
relative calm
followed the year 2000 brought a change
when the iran-backed militia Hezbollah
took control in southern Lebanon right
on Israel's border since then Israel and
Hezbollah have had regular
clashes Hezbollah is one of Iran's proxy
militant groups in the
region through through these groups the
Islamic Republic has formed what it
calls a ring of fire around Israel
Hezbollah in Lebanon on Israel's
northern border Shia militias in Syria
and the houis in Yemen to the
South and looming large are Iran's
attempts to create its own nuclear
weapons a threat to Israel and the
entire
region and joining me now for more is Dr
Ali fatah NAD he's director of the
center for Middle East and Global Order
here in Berlin and author of the book
Iran in an emerging New World Order from
Ahmed NAD to Rohani Dr fatah NAD Israel
has stated its aim is to quote destroy
Hamas but can that happen without Israel
addressing the support that Hamas gets
from
Iran well that's a very good question in
terms of the Israeli aim to annihilate
Hamas we have to distinguish between
hamas's military
capabilities and its uh you know its
ability to wage war in the future uh and
uh between and uh Hamas is a political
organization as a social movement I
think uh the former uh would be uh the
Israel's main name but it's going to be
very complicated given um you know the
the the comp ations that are inherent
with the ground offensive uh but at a at
a larger picture of course Israel has to
address Iran uh the Iran problem so to
speak because Iran is a major supporter
of Hamas and uh is probably uh also is
going to continue that support so we're
going to see um if uh in the wake of the
current War we're going to see a much
more robust Israeli and perhaps American
posture Visa Iran when it comes to it to
Iran's expansive Regional
policies do you think Israel makes a
distinction between Hamas as a political
party and Hamas as a terror organization
simply because in the European Union the
US UK Hamas is a terror organization
period no absolutely I mean this is the
priority that Israel has to address
first of all Hamas as a terrorist
organization as a military
organization but of course Hamas is
quite different from you know dases the
Islamic State or Al ala because it has a
kind of social base that is not to say
that is extremely popular in Gaza uh we
know from surveys that have been
conducted just prior to the prior to
October 7th that a small uh part of the
uh gazen population is supporting Hamas
and are happy with Hamas and the great
majority are not but of course Hamas is
part of the Muslim Brotherhood and is
such is an organization that is beyond a
mere terrorist organization whereas the
means it uses are primarily connected to
terrorism the longer Israel's war
against Hamas drags out do you think
there is a risk that the Iran Israel
rivalry transforms into open
confrontation between the
two
well um as I've stated before um Iran is
uh probably not interested in uh
provoking a great war with Israel and
perhaps also the United States because
this would pose a tremendous challenge
to regime uh security and stability so
the Iranian side fully knows that this
is why we've seen that they they were
reverting back from their initial
belligerent rhetoric after October 7th
just a few days after that um from all
top officials from the president the
supreme leader the rgc chief uh so they
have all said the October 7th attack has
been uh done by by Palestinian
resistance only so this is a sign of
concern within the Irani leadership that
uh a larger congration uh may occur at
which end there is a direct military
confrontation which is too risky for
Iran but but short of that Iran I think
going to continue using its axis of
resistance the kind of militia Network
it has from Hezbollah uh to uh groups
Pro Irani groups in Syria and in Iraq
all the way down to Yemen with the
houthis in order to make an Israeli
operation um against Hamas uh much more
difficult the Iranian government doesn't
recognize Israel's right to exist and
supports militant proxies in the region
how much support is there among Iranians
for this
policy well there is a tremendous Gap uh
when it comes to the issue of Israel and
Palestine between State and society as
you have rightly suggested the Islamic
Republic has been a sworn enemy uh of
the state of Israel since its very
Inception in
1979 uh because of uh you know it's uh
because of the regime's anti- Zionist
ideology but it has been you using and
abusing the Palestinian cause uh in
order to project power uh in the region
but also beyond in order to Proclaim
itself as a guarantor of uh Palestinian
rights whereas in reality of course the
picture has been much more complicated
but after four Decades of regime
propaganda on the issue of Israel and
Palestine we see quite a strong societal
backlash um that uh you know a large
part of Iranian Society do not believe
anymore in Main in the main pillars of
the regime's propaganda be it the
anti-woman pillar be it the anti be
anti-americanism or being being being uh
anti-israeli so on all those front we
see a huge difference between the regime
and society and we've seen uh you know
um a lot of societ backlash over the
last um you know uh few weeks in Iran
from various groups from students all
the way to football fans uh that are
also at the same time quite cognizant of
the fact that the regime uh is using
this kind of this uh War um to its own
purposes and at the end of which it's
Irani society that going to suffer this
this way or the other do you think uh
one is is reaching a stage in which it's
going to become increasingly harder for
the Iranian government to justify this
continued expenditure on its proxies in
the region at a time that Iranians are
going through dire economic
difficulties uh because of this we see
since actually Iranian involvement um uh
in Syria after the Arab Spring we see
that the elite has been cognizant of
this societal opposition to its Regional
adventurism and so it has uh you know
calibrated its rhetoric accordingly for
instance in the case of Syria it has
told the Irani people that first of all
it's a war on terror secondly they're
going to be some economic dividends so
none of which has been uh really true
and um and also we see that there has
been a prominent uh protest slogan since
at least the 2009 movement uh from the
Irani protest movement uh which is uh
neither
uh neither Gaza nor Lebanon my life for
Iran so there is a tremendous skepticism
from Iranian Society Vis A this kind of
regime preference to engage outside
borders in order to project power
only we'll leave it there for the time
being but thanks so much for joining us
today Dr Ali fat naad thank you so
much thank
you